	One of the "new" features of MATLAB for Windows is the use of 
the toolbox by the "name" (directory name) it is installed as.  
This feature supplements the online help command and whatsnew 
command by looking in the installed toolbox by name and displaying 
the readme & contents.m file (appropriately).  An example of use 
with your toolbox would be "help mcstd" or "whatsnew mcstd".  
Online help (non-specific utility) comes from the file 
"contents.m", and whatsnew comes from the file "readme.".

	In MATLAB prior to version 4.0, the readme files were 
uniquely numbered in each toolbox (by The MathWorks, e.g., 
readme5.m).  The file called "readme.m" was the readme file to the 
main MATLAB library (toolbox).  The particular readme file 
displayed its own help file as part of its execution.  The file 
called "contents.m" did not exist (rudimentary contents capability 
were available by using help).  Also, if a particular filename 
existed in several directories of the MATLABPATH, only the first 
occurrence of the file was utilized (ALL other occurrences are 
ignored).

	To display the MCSTD contents file, in MATLAB prior to 
version 4.0, you can simply type "help contents" or "type 
contents".  If the filename "contents.m" does not exist in the 
MATLABPATH (ordered path that MATLAB searches for files) prior to 
your toolbox, then yours will be the first one found and 
subequently the contents file will be displayed.  It contains 
about a page worth of information, and will roll off the screen.  
In MATLAB version 4.0, you have the capability to scroll up text 
that rolled off the screen.  This is one reason that the tutorial 
suggests printing the contents.m file for reference.  One feature 
that MATLAB version 3.5 does have that version 4.0 does not have, 
is the fact that help by itself displays the contents of the 
installed toolboxes in a screen summary of available filenames 
from each toolbox.

	To display the MCSTD readme file, in MATLAB prior to version 
4.0, you must type "type readme.".  Like above, MATLAB will find 
only the first occupance of this file (that is why MATLAB does not 
want to use "readme.m").  For similar reasons to above, the 
tutorial suggests printing the readme file.
 



 

 


