	Tutorial

A Bridge Between Modern Control System Theory And Design, Second Edition, And 
MATLAB

1.  Introduction

	This tutorial was created to assist engineering students and practicing that have come to the cross-roads 
where computer software would assist them immeasurably in understanding and accomplishing their 
engineering tasks.  Almost all universities realize this need, but there is no agreed upon software package that 
is "correct" (save maybe FORTRAN). The computer can be extremely helpful, even at a very early stage of the 
learning process, but should not be substituted for the understanding of the topics.

	MATLAB, an abbreviation for MATrix LABoratory, is a matrix-based system used for engineering 
calculations which has progressed to become the language used by most control system engineers worldwide.  
This tutorial focuses attention on the required background needed for designing control systems with 
MATLAB.  MATLAB is a very useful language which operates interactively with the user, and will respond to 
all of the user's attempts at conversation.  It offers a variety of graphic output displays useful to control system 
engineers such as system block diagram development (Simulink required), linear, log, semilog, polar and 
contour plots.  It is envisioned that this document will serve as a supplement to either Modern Control System 
Theory and Design or Advanced Modern Control System Theory and Design, and enable students, professors, 
and practicing engineers to quickly learn the basics needed to use MATLAB with its associated toolboxes and 
the Modern Control System Theory and Design Toolbox.

	This integrated textbook and software learning package is self contained, and is designed for 
undergraduate courses on control systems. In addition, a Solutions Manual is available to professors who 
adopt this book.  This toolbox (software) contains extensive new features/utilities created to enhance 
MATLAB and several of The MathWorks' toolboxes.  Since this integrated learning package and the 
MATLAB software is self contained, it is not necessary to purchase additional books/material to learn how to 
use MATLAB with this textbook.

	The software contained on the MODERN CONTROL SYSTEM THEORY AND DESIGN 
TOOLBOX contains the following features that makes this book self-contained for use with MATLAB: 

ò	A Tutorial File (this document) has been added that contains the essentials necessary to understand 
and effectively utilize the MATLAB interface.  This tutorial file aids the user in understanding the 
MATLAB interface where most other books require additional books for full comprehension.  Features 
of this file are as follows:

		m	MATLAB installation assistance
		m	MATLAB performance improvement suggestions
		m	MATLAB fundamentals
		m	Understanding notations used by MATLAB
		m	Control analysis using MATLAB
		m	MODERN CONTROL SYSTEM THEORY AND DESIGN TOOLBOX use with 
MATLAB

1.  Introduction (continued)

ò	A Demonstration m-file gives the users a feel for the various utilities included in the MODERN 
CONTROL SYSTEM THEORY AND DESIGN TOOLBOX.  Included are the following:

		m	General purpose utilities
		m	Linear, frequency domain, Bode Diagram
		m	Linear, frequency domain, Nichols Chart
		m	Linear, frequency domain, Root Locus
		m	Nonlinear, frequency domain, Describing function
		m	Linear, time domain
		m	Conversions between discrete time domain and continuous time systems

	This demonstration helps the user learn how to use the MATLAB package easily with the MODERN 
CONTROL SYSTEM THEORY AND DESIGN TOOLBOX, and with the tutorial makes this 
integrated package self contained.

ò	Online HELP is available for all MODERN CONTROL SYSTEM THEORY AND DESIGN 
TOOLBOX utilities.  Additionally, the "lookfor" command (available from MATLAB version 4.0 
onward) is fully supported in the online help for each MODERN CONTROL SYSTEM THEORY 
AND DESIGN TOOLBOX utility.

ò	A Synopsis File reviews and highlights the features of each chapter in MODERN CONTROL 
SYSTEM THEORY AND DESIGN in a concise manner which is helpful in guiding the professor on 
subjects to emphasize, and to the student and practicing engineer for reviewing and remembering 
important aspects of the coverage.

ò	The software is compatible with all editions of The Student Edition of MATLAB and the 
Professional Versions of MATLAB (starting with Versions 3.5 or 4.0, respectively), and it has been 
upgraded to be compatible with The MathWorks' following software packages:

		m	Control System Toolbox Version 2.0 or greater
		m	Simulink Version 1.2c
		m	Nonlinear Toolbox Version 1.0
		m	Symbolic Toolbox Version 1.0

	I have attempted to make this document an easy reading document (light hearted J at times) for the 
individuals about to learn/use MATLAB as part of their engineering background.  Some may find this a little 
too simple L, but no-one should be unable to follow the natural progression of this document.  Most of this 
document can even be read with little or no hands-on practice while getting a full grasp of most of the 
MATLAB capabilities (although not suggested).

2.  First Time Usage - Software For Engineering

	This section deals with the software.  It does assume that you already have an understanding of the 
theoretical principals of the topics about to be presented.  Any software that you may use now, or any time in 
the future, is only as good as your comprehension of the topics, and your ability to interpret the results 
presented to you by the computer.  This cannot be stressed enough, because misinterpreted results due to 
whatever cause (incorrect inputs, computer round-offs, misinterpreted printouts, faulty programming code, etc.) 
can lead to any number of Catastrophes, depending on what you are doing.  Computer literate people are all too 
aware of this, and have even given this a name: GIGO (Garbage In Garbage Out).  

	With the advent of modern computers, engineers (as well as many other technical jobs) have had 
available a tool that can help them do their jobs quicker, more accurately, presentably, and much more!  The 
main question is what software are you going to use?  Programming it all yourself is cumbersome, time 
consuming, custom for each application, requires extensive understanding of all the topics encompassed, and 
on top of it all, possibly ridded with error.  However, existing software packages have most of the features you 
require at a simple to use level ("User-Friendly").

	The major problem that most people have is which software package to buy!  The correct answer has 
got to depend on your current needs, and your expected near-term future needs.  Far future needs probably 
should not be addressed due to the continually evolving computer software and hardware world, and should be 
re-evaluated when you get there.  Some topics to consider are:


	1)	Ease of Learning/Use (User-Friendly)  
	2)	Analytic Capability
	3)	Graphic Capability
	4)	Expandability/Modularity
	5)	Technical Support/Support Groups
	6)	Hardware Requirements
	7)	Price

	Considering that this tutorial is primarily prepared for a course in which it is beneficial for the student 
to own their own software (Maximizing Capability/Minimizing Costs), versus having a classroom license 
(which usually ends up being a one time experience), I suggest using "The Student Edition of MATLAB" by 
The MathWorks, Inc.  It Includes Software, Manual, User Groups, etc., and has most all essentials that assist in 
learning a wide variety of topics at a very modest price.*

	"The Student Edition of MATLAB" package gives you extensive mathematical/ analytical/graphical 
capabilities, as well as a "taste" of two of the different professional level toolboxes (Signal Toolbox & Control 
Toolbox) that they combine to call the "Signals and Systems Toolbox" (quite adequate for classroom training 
purposes of both topics).  This is adequate for you to realize many control theory applications, the 
programming potential of MATLAB, and the ease of dealing with toolbox add-ons (conceptually and 
mathematically).  Another item of interest to all, is that there are available "FREE" toolboxes to all who desire 
(accessible via their FTP site).  In their newsletters (that they willingly send to registered users) they already 
have listed textbooks that use MATLAB and/or have toolboxes associated with the books.  To top it off, they 
maintain a MATLAB User Group software library (nicknamed MUG) that contains all past newsletters, and 
FREE User software, as well as examples, and other useful information, available at no charge to you.  

*  All references to pages or manuals herein is for The Student Edition version 3.5, unless otherwise annotated

3.  First Time Usage - MATLAB Installation

	Installation is quite straight forward for an IBM PC, just time consuming.  Some basic knowledge of 
DOS and the system that you will be working on is assumed.  I have identified certain typos in the Student 
MATLAB manual (first printing) for the IBM PC, and I suggest you correct them prior to reading and 
installing MATLAB:


	1)	Page 16 : "three or more 360K" should read "two 360K"
	2)	Page 26 : "\MATLABGEO" should read "\MATLAB\GEO"

	Now simply follow the directions in appropriate Getting Started section.  Once completed, you are 
ready to start using the Student Version of MATLAB.  You may want to read the section on MATLAB 
fundamentals before trying to use MATLAB, but definitely read this page completely first.

	If you have followed the installation section of MATLAB, all you have to do to start using MATLAB, 
is to type "MATLAB" and hit enter at the DOS prompt.  After a moment to load, you should see the MATLAB 
copyright message on the top of the screen, followed by the line "HELP, DEMO, and INFO are available" (if 
proper installation has occurred).  If this much does not come up whenever you activate MATLAB, something 
has gone wrong.

	If you encounter any difficulties with the package:
	   1)	Re-read the appropriate chapters in the textbook.
	   2)	Check for obvious typographical errors.
	   3)	For the Student Edition, consult the instructor (he has technical support available to him).
		For the Professional version, consult the MathWorks.

	The first time (and only the first time) that you activate MATLAB, it will prompt you for registration 
information (serial number and your name) following its normal messages.  The MATLAB book does not tell 
you anything about this step because it is a leftover feature from the professional version not described in any 
(Student version or Professional Version) of their manuals (it is explained with a separate letter attached to the 
professional version).  It is a formality, so that you can identify your copy of MATLAB without having to pull 
out your original diskettes when calling for technical support.  Fill it in by answering the prompts that come on 
the screen.  I do suggest entering your name, if nothing else but to personalize this copy as yours.

	To add additional toolboxes to MATLAB, merely follow the directions on the bottom of page 26 (as if 
you are adding a library of your own).  For installing the FREE "Modern Control System Theory and Design 
Toolbox" (henceforth called the MCSTD toolbox) a sample list of instructions are listed.


	1)	"MD \MATLAB\MCSTD", I chose the name MCSTD as an abbreviation of the name.
	2)	"COPY A:\TOOLBOX \MATLAB\MCSTD", copy the toolbox part of the MCSTD diskette.
	3)	"EDLIN \MATLAB\BIN\MATLAB.BAT", update the file to reflect the new toolbox.  In 
MATLAB version 4.0, the file "MATLABRC.M" must be updated.  The "SET 
MATLABPATH=" has now got to have ";\MATLAB\MCSTD" appended to it.
	4)	The toolbox is fully installed and ready to be used in MATLAB.

	With Matlab version 5 or any UNIX based version, the toolbox installation procedure is slightly 
different.  The sample list of instructions below outline the Windows 95 toolbox installation of the MCSTD 
(precise pathing may be different on your system depending on installation).


	1)	"MD C:\MATLAB\TOOLBOX\MCSTD", I chose the name MCSTD as an abbreviation of the 
name.
	2)	"COPY A:\TOOLBOX C:\MATLAB\TOOLBOX\MCSTD", copy the toolbox part of the 
MCSTD diskette.
	3)	"EDIT C:\MATLAB\TOOLBOX\LOCAL\PATHDEF.M", update the file to reflect the new 
toolbox by adding "'/MATLAB/TOOLBOX/MCSTD:', ..." to the end of the Path Defined Here 
section.  Please note to use the "/" for directory differentiation here, since Matlab will convert it 
to the appropriate version for your operating system.
	4)	The toolbox is fully installed and ready to be used in MATLAB.

	The problems, figures, fortran and demo directories that come with that toolbox are non-essentials (but 
give a nice demo of the MCSTD features and variety of working example from this book).  They can be 
executed directly from the floppy diskette (not cluttering your hard disk if you are tight on space), or installed 
in a similar manner as above.  The readme.m, contents.m, tutorial & synopsis files should be printed as 
reference material.

4.  First Time Usage - Performance Tuning MATLAB

	This section is not required reading!  This section is, what I consider, an advanced topic not necessary 
for proper use of MATLAB.  But, for those of you who intend to spend hours at a time using MATLAB 
(Student or Professional version), it may well be worth your time to read this section.  These are the 
suggestions that I make to my fellow colleagues using MATLAB, for significantly improving performance at 
an insignificant cost!

	The first thing you notice when starting MATLAB, is how long it takes to start before you can type.  
Those of you with sharp eyes and/or minds might even notice a lot of hard disk activity occurring during this 
time.  This is because MATLAB is an interpreter.  That means for every command (except a few considered 
internal) that you give, it must read the file with that command in it (and similarly the same for every command 
called inside the original command).  With that in mind (and the fact that you can't change this), the faster the 
drive that has all these commands on them, the faster your performance.  

	The limiting factors for your choice, as you will see, is available computer memory and/or your desire 
to try something different.  Buying a new and better drive is often overkill and may not give you peak 
performance.  Software that improves your current drives speed is a step in the right direction; however, 
creating a drive out of computer memory (which is the fastest possible drive for your machine) is the ideal 
choice.  The super-intelligent ones will even use a combination of these techniques (as I am about to explain).  
I have seen speed factor improvements of 3 to 15 times performance using these techniques.  As more powerful 
computers/software comes out, this factor may decrease.

	With the advantages comes the disadvantages (and I feel I should point them out before going any 
farther).  When creating memory drives, as the computer is turned off, all information on that drive is lost.  My 
solution is to copy the standard toolboxes and software to that drive when I am going to use it (requires a small 
addition length of time), and keep my personal routines and data on my hard disk (the best of both worlds).  
Also, most PCs have limited memory which you use sparingly.  My solution is: if you don't mind the speed, 
stick with what you have.  Otherwise, merely buy and install more memory (the appropriate type: e.g., 
expanded or extended) for your computer!

	The amount of memory that you desire for your memory drive (henceforth called ramdrive) depends on 
how much software you want to put there, the more you put the faster you go!  Demo routines with their data 
don't have to be kept on the ramdrive after you have become familiar with them.  But for now, you can add up 
the sizes of the files you want to move (add 10% for blank space) to see how big this ramdrive should be.

	The commands that add this ramdrive to your system (provided that the memory is already there) is 
either vdisk, ramdrive (in DOS) or whatever appropriate software that came with the memory that you 
purchased.  An example of my computer setup (using DOS version 5.00 with high memory; your machine may 
be different) for the Student Edition of MATLAB is:


	1) 	Add "DEVICE=C:\DOS\RAMDRIVE.SYS 2000/E" to the file "C:\CONFIG.SYS" makes a 
2000KB (2MB) ramdrive.  Most all ramdrives make you add one or more lines to the file 
"C:\CONFIG.SYS".  When your computer is rebooted, the ramdrive should be available for 
use.
	2)	Add "DEVICE=C:\DOS\SMARTDRV.SYS" to the file "C:\CONFIG.SYS", adds disk caching 
upon reboot.
	3)	Add "FASTOPEN C:" to the file "C:\AUTOEXEC.BAT", improves file access performance for 
that drive.

4.  First Time Usage - Performance Tuning MATLAB (continued)

	In step one, above, you may choose an appropriate size for your specific needs.  I chose 2MB because it 
is adequate to hold all of Student MATLAB (version 3.5) and the complete MCSTD diskette, serving my 
purpose quite well.  You may choose not to put all that on your ramdrive, but only the parts that you are going 
to use (such as no demo files, compiler linking files, example files, etc.).  On the other hand, you may have 
other toolboxes that you want to put on this ramdrive.  This is a choice that you must make!

	Now that you have your ramdrive set up (all changes have been made and you have rebooted), you 
want to take advantage of these changes.  I will use "F:" as the letter of the ramdrive created, change according 
to your individual system.  Your file that starts MATLAB up ("C:\MATLAB\BIN\MATLAB.BAT") has to 
reflect these changes.  This is how I suggest altering that file:


	1)	Add to the top of the file a line for each directory that you want to copy which copies that 
directory from your hard drive to your ramdrive.  One example is "XCOPY 
C:\MATLAB\MATLAB F:\MATLAB\MATLAB\". This would copy MATLAB from your 
hard disk C: to your ramdrive F:.

	2)	Alter the "SET MATLABPATH=" line by including the drive letter where the directory exists 
for each directory listed (you may mix between hard disk and ramdrive as you choose).  In 
MATLAB version 4.0, the MATLABPATH is set in the file "MATLABRC.M".

	The next performance suggestion concerns improving the speed of shelling to DOS with the MATLAB 
"!" command.  If the computer uses the file "COMMAND.COM" from a ramdrive, it can load and execute the 
"!" command faster.  Not only MATLAB will benefit, any program that shells to DOS will benefit from this 
tip.  This is my suggestion for altering the file "C:\AUTOEXEC.BAT":


	1)	Add "COPY C:\COMMAND.COM F:\" to the bottom of this file.

	2)	Add "SET COMSPEC=F:\COMMAND.COM" following the copy line.  This tells DOS to use 
that file when shelling to DOS.

	Additionally, anything that makes that operating system perform faster will usually help the application 
that is running on that operating system (in our case Matlab).  With operating systems that support multiple 
applications/users, performance tuning can become an art form in and of itself.  Further DOS/operating system 
performance tips I leave to the experts to suggest (but I do like this one above in particular).

	My last performance suggestion, as mentioned earlier, concerns demo files which take room but also 
make the computer search for each MATLAB command a little larger (since it checks all file names in the 
MATLABPATH until the file is found).  I don't like loosing anything, so what I do is move the 
demos/examples of each toolbox to separate directories (as I've already done in the MCSTD toolbox).  This 
way I can always add the demos/examples to the MATLABPATH in the MATLAB.BAT file.  Personally, I 
like to do as little as possible, and just create a copy of the MATLAB.BAT file (I call MATLABD.BAT) with 
those changes made to it.  Also, I don't copy the demos/examples to the ramdrive (reducing the room required 
on the ramdrive as well) unless I want them (as in MATLABD.BAT).

5.  First Time Usage - MATLAB Fundamental Concepts

	MATLAB is a very simple, but efficient, interpreter (versus compiler).  This allows you to type in a line 
and have it execute immediately.  The tremendous advantage is that you don't have to re-compile your program 
(like in Fortran, Pascal, or C) for every change you make before re-executing the code (allowing the simple 
addition of toolboxes whenever desired), as well as the ability to view the values of the variables without 
adding debugging write statements to your program.  MATLAB does include an interface so that you can 
execute you Fortran or C code from inside MATLAB (see MATLAB manual section on MEX files).  Like any 
other language, it has a small subset of commands (statements), from which other more sophisticated 
commands are developed by the users.  There are five fundamental items in MATLAB: variables, functions, 
programming code, algebraic operators and the recent addition (as of version 5) which I shall call structures.

	Variables, in MATLAB, are all treated as matrices.  Text strings (which are stored as matrices), 
however, are automatically given a special attribute, so that the ASCII text value is printed (not the numeric 
value).

	Functions in MATLAB operate slightly different than most programming languages (with the possible 
exception of C++).  Most MATLAB functions take none, one or more variables as parameters (within the 
parenthesis), and return none, one or more variables as a result.  An unusual aspect of this is that a single 
function can be used many different ways depending on how many parameters are being passed in, the type of 
data being passed in, and how many parameters are being retrieved out.

	Programming code, in MATLAB, is mainly for control flow, directory manipulation, data storage, and 
debugging purposes.  Like most languages this includes: if, else, end, for, while, ... etc. .  They will be 
discussed in more detail as later in this text.

	Algebraic operators, in MATLAB, are very similar to the math operators that you are used to, with only 
a few minor exceptions.  The main consideration to be taken when using them is that they are (almost all) 
matrix math operators.  If you want to use scalar mathematics, you must take care to use the scalar versions of 
the algebraic operators.

	Structures are groups of variables, algebraic operators and/or other structures that are grouped together 
in one entity and are referred to by that structure quantifier.  I shall not elaborate to much on this topic, keeping 
this presentation to the simpler more basic concepts.

	Another topic that should be mentioned in the fundamental concepts section, is the concept of 
toolboxes.  A toolbox, in MATLAB, is a collection of functions/utilities that work together on a specific topic 
(i.e.: Signal processing, Control processing, System Identification toolbox, ...) so that it (hopefully) meets all 
your needs on this topic, and you do not need to program any functions for your own needs.  As your skills 
expand into other areas of expertise, there are other toolboxes (the MATLAB toolbox list is always growing) 
available for (in the professional world) a reasonable cost (versus you programming-debugging-testing your 
own code for each specific need).  The MathWorks' desire to express this highly important fact has lead them 
to include the "Signal and Systems" toolbox with their Student Version.  This toolbox gives the user a taste of 
the professional versions of the Signal toolbox and the Control System toolbox.  A more detailed discussion on 
these and other toolboxes will follow later in this document.

6.  First Time Usage - Matrix Representations

	Up until recently, every variable of any sort in MATLAB is a matrix.  The approach is to represent a 
wide variety of items as matrices.  Once certain conventions are agreed upon (which MATLAB has many 
predefined), all that remains is to learn how to use it.  All the types about to be described here have values 
which are either real or complex.

	Scalar values start very simple, represented as a 1 by 1 matrix.  It can take on any double precision 
value that the computer can represent, including some unusual ones : Infinity (Inf) and Not-A-Number (NaN).

		"Inf" represents a number beyond the computers ability to represent. Almost any mathematical 
operation dealing with it yields the value Inf, as should be expected.

		"NaN" is difficult to illustrate its use; consider a set of data with one value in it that is totally 
absurd.  If you use that value in your data set, your analysis results will be totally corrupted.  Instead of 
removing that data from your set (which sometimes cannot be done) it would be nice to say that value 
is Not really a valid Number, hence NaN.  Now we can agree to check for this value in our analysis 
routines, which is already done in many MATLAB routines.

	Vectors values become a little more sophisticated, represented as a 1 by N matrix or a N by 1 matrix (N 
being the length of the vector).  The distinction between the two representations is used by MATLAB, and will 
be examined later in this document.  The typical uses of a vector is for a set of data, polynomial 
representations, ... .  These uses will become more apparent to you as you practice with the topics presented 
later in this document.

	Matrix values are straight forward, it represents a matrix.  In MATLAB version 4.0, matrices have an 
added feature of being "sparse".  Sparse matrix technology is a method for storing a large matrix filled with 
mostly zeros, in a much smaller storage space.  This can aid in speed when dealing with these matrices.  This 
feature does not change the features of a matrix, just the physical storage and speed of execution when used.  
Some typical matrix representation examples are sets of data samples, transition matrices, covariance matrices, 
... .  Once again, these uses will become more apparent to you as you practice with the topics presented later in 
this document.

	Strings are a little more confusing to understand.  A simple strings are stored, like vectors, as a 1 by N 
matrix.  The difference between strings and vectors is that strings are given a special attribute (automatically set 
by MATLAB) so that it will be displayed properly on the screen.  A non-vital detail (trivial, for reference 
purpose only) is that each letter in a string is stored as the numeric value of its ASCII representation.  When 
multiple lines of varying size text are stored in a variable (available since version 5), matlab has improved their 
treating of this and stores it like an array of string that can each be of varying size.

7.  First Time Usage - MATLAB Fundamentals

	The MATLAB prompt that is listed/described in the manual is the "©".  At this prompt you will begin to 
learn and use MATLAB.  This practice session is created to give you the idea of how exit, find help and inquire 
about variables in MATLAB.

	MATLAB, like most modern software packages, tries to make the commands it uses very simple and 
logical.  Most commands are like their english counterparts, making (hopefully) the commands simple for 
everyone to understand.  One important fact that should be stated now is that MATLAB is case sensitive (this 
means that entering things in upper case is different than entering things in lower case!).  The Student manual 
mentions one paragraph on this subject (page 46, last paragraph).  All commands that are to be entered in the 
following practice session shall be in lower case unless specifically stated!  After each command has been 
entered, to start the execution of the command press enter or return (this shall be assumed stated with each of 
the following commands, unless otherwise stated).

	The first thing that any software should teach, is how to exit the software and get back to your operating 
system (DOS).  Their are two ways to do this: "exit" or "quit" followed.  Both are good examples of the 
English-like commands.  A good idea before exiting any software program is to save your work, but for right 
now we shall not do this (especially since we have done no work, and you have not been shown how to save as 
of yet).  After executing either of these commands, if you choose to continue using MATLAB, you must start 
MATLAB up because you have been returned to DOS.

	The next thing that we are going to do is to "demo" some of the MATLAB features.  Hopefully, you 
would guess that the command to do this is "demo" and you would be right.  An extensive demo has been 
prepared by MATLAB, showing you a wide variety of its capabilities.  You should take the time to try a few 
(or all) of these demos at your leisure.

	The "help" feature of MATLAB is very useful to the user.  This was designed so that you don't have to 
pull out the MATLAB manual (or toolbox manual(s)) in order to be able to understand the various commands 
currently available to you.  There are several different ways to use the help command, depending on the version 
of MATLAB that you possess.

		By typing "help" by itself, you will get either list all installed toolboxes (version 4.0) or a list of 
all the currently available commands organized on different screen according to the toolboxes that you 
have installed (prior to version 4.0).  As you add additional toolboxes to MATLAB, each toolbox will 
have its own screen listing the commands available in that toolbox.  This is a nice feature which helps 
the individual think in a modular fashion when going into the professional world.

		In version 4.0, typing "help" followed by a space and the installed toolbox directory name, will 
list the commands in the toolbox with a one line explanation of their functions (e.g.: "help matlab").

		Additionally, by typing "help" followed by a space and any listed command (in the manual or 
on the help screens), you will get an explanation of the individual command and how to use it (e.g.: 
"help quit").

7.  First Time Usage - MATLAB Fundamentals (continued)

	Lastly, for this section, I am simply going to tell you to read chapter 6-9 of The Student Edition of 
MATLAB (pages 43 - 78).  Chapter 6 ("Fundamentals") is adequate, and I suggest getting some hands on 
practice while reading this chapter (knowledge of the functions being used is not currently necessary, but if you 
would like to understand them you can use the help command or read it in The Student Edition).  Chapters 7-9 
(Matrix Manipulations) should be reviewed.  Other functions worth reading about (or at least glancing at the 
help screens) are:


	1)	"!" allows you to execute DOS commands (from inside MATLAB), without having to quit your 
MATLAB session (called shelling to DOS).  When the DOS command that issue following the 
! has completed, you are returned to MATLAB without losing any of your MATLAB session.
		TSR warning : Do not use the "!" to run any TSR program.  Start all TSR programs prior to 
entering MATLAB.  TSRs take memory to add themselves to your environment (DOS).  
MATLAB is not aware of this memory usage, and will consequently use the memory, at some 
point in time, clobbering software and probably corrupting MATLAB and/or DOS (in 
memory)!  Don't be fooled if you don't see this happen, you may have lucked out in one of 
several ways this time!  This time MATLAB may not have used the memory.  This time what it 
clobbered may not have had any effect.  Or you simply didn't realize that the corrupted system is 
now returning corrupted results (MATLAB and/or DOS) !!!

	2)	"load" allows you to get data that has been stored.  Two forms of data currently can be loaded: 
their own special form (called MAT files) and ASCII files that contain one numeric matrix (any 
size allowed) in it.  This is useful to get data into MATLAB from other software packages.

	3)	"save" is the counterpart to load.  This allows you to save data for future use.  Like load, it saves 
as a MAT files or as an ASCII file (upon request).  This is useful if you intend to export data to 
other programs after processing it in MATLAB.

	4)	"plot" is your first step into MATLAB's graphic world.  Their are too many different graphic 
commands to list, each with accompanying support functions.  But as you may have guessed, 
"plot" plots data on the screen.  
			Getting printed copies of the graphs are done in several different ways (see Appendix C 
in the Student Edition manual): using a graphic screen dump to the printer utility (printed 
quality is only as good as the screen resolution), using the "meta" command with their "GPP" 
software (professional MATLAB prior to version 4.0), and using the print command or print 
menu (professional MATLAB version 4.0).  Since this is for the student version, I shall discuss 
the screen dump utility.
			DOS and MATLAB both come with screen dump TSRs (see prior TSR warning).  If 
you intend to print any plots, you should load either one of these utilities prior to starting up 
MATLAB!  The DOS utility is called "GRAPHICS".  The MATLAB utility (see page 16) is 
"EGAEPSON" for Epson compatible printers, or "EGALASER" for laserjet compatible 
printers.  See pages 27-28 on how to install it properly.  If you have problems printing and have 
a VGA monitor, a suggestion is to restart MATLAB in the EGA mode (as described on pages 
20-21).

	Most functions are recognizable by their name and one line descriptions.  In the Student Edition manual 
(the only book that I reference by pages), you will find this section on pages 185 through 194.

8.  Control Systems - Data Representation

	In the Data Representation Section, you learn to represent real systems as mathematical models.  Any 
type of control system is going to be represented as matrices in MATLAB.  The trick is to become fluent with 
their usage (which only really comes with practice).  Each of the following sub-sections will make sense as you 
have been properly introduced to their topics by your instructor!

	First and foremost, in most control theory classes, is the Transfer Function representation of a system. 
 This is where a system is represented a series of polynomials, usually organized (as in most control theory 
textbooks) as: 
	Here, a Single-Input/Single-Output (SISO) transfer function can be represented as two polynomials of 
decreasing powers (numerator polynomial divided by a denominator polynomial).  Page 173 of the Student 
Edition, (20.1.2 Transfer Function) describes a more complicated system, namely Single-Input/Multi-Output 
(SIMO), for analysis using the transfer function method.  For educational purposes, I suggest sticking to the 
simpler SISO systems (most instructors do).  In MATLAB, a polynomial (numerator, denominator or other) is 
represented as a row vector (1 by N matrix) containing the scale factors for each of the sequentially decreasing 
powers of s.  This is a very important point to comprehend before reading the following examples:


	1)	"17s5+23s3+8s2+6" converts to "[17 0 23 8 0 6]".  The highest power of s is five, so there will 
be six numbers in this vector (s-powers 5 to 0).  Powers of s that are not there have scale factors 
of zero, and are not to be forgotten (they hold the s-power sequence and are NOT to be 
forgotten).

	2)	"5+12s+4s3+3" converts to "[4 0 12 8]".    If you cannot visually see this, then the best thing you 
can do for yourself is to rewrite the polynomial in "decreasing powers" of s as such : 
"4s3+0s2+12s1+(5+3)s0" or more simply "4s3+12s+8".  You should now be able to see how to 
do this.

	Next is the Zero-Pole-Gain method, presented on pages 173 - 175 (once again I suggest sticking to 
SISO systems for educational purposes).  This is similar to the transfer function in that the two methods 
represent the same exact equations, merely the equations have been manipulated into a different form.  The 
difference is that the polynomials have been factored into their roots, and "k" is the gain that makes the 
equations equal (namely the highest s-power numerator scale-factor divided by the highest s-power 
denominator scale-factor).  This representation of the system is:
 
	Here, a Single-Input/Single-Output (SISO) system (called Zero-Pole-Gain function) can be represented 
as two sets of roots (numerator & denominator) and a gain factor.  When any of the numerator roots values 
goes to zero, the overall function value goes to zero; hence, the numerator roots are called "Zeros".  When any 
of the denominator roots values goes to zero, the overall function value goes to infinity; hence, the denominator 
roots are called "Poles".

8.  Control Systems - Data Representation (continued)

	Page 173 (20.1.3 Zero-Pole-Gain) describes a more complicated system, namely Single-Input/Multi-
Output (SIMO) system, for analysis using the Zero-Pole-Gain method.  For educational purposes, I again 
suggest sticking to the simpler SISO systems (most instructors do).  In MATLAB, a set of polynomial roots 
(numerator, denominator or other) is represented as a column vector (N by 1 matrix) with each element 
representing one of these roots.  The Student Edition attempts to show this 'simple' transformation with one 
example followed by one example of the Zero-Pole-Gain method.  A few examples follow to challenge your 
understanding of "polynomial root" representation:


	1)	"(s-3)(s-4.5)(s+100)" converts to "[3 ; 4.5 ; -100]".  By now you should recognize the semicolon 
from MATLAB as meaning (among other things) a new line (new row).  This makes the matrix 
listed above become a 3 rows by 1 column matrix (column matrix, three in length).

	2)	"(s-2)(s-500)(s-30)" converts to "[500 ; 30 ; 2]".  Your first guess would probably be different 
([2 ; 500 ; 30] is also correct), because the order of the elements in this column vector (roots) is 
irrelevant, since in multiplication the order in which you multiply is irrelevant (at least in scalar 
math).  Therefore, any order, as long as all are accounted for, is correct (done to make that 
point).

	3)	"(s-40)3(s-80)" converts to "[40 ; 40 ; 40 ; 80]".  Each root has to be accounted for.  Multiple 
roots must be accounted for each time it is multiple.

	4)	"(s3-11s2+38s-40)(s-3)" converts to "[2 ; 4 ; 5 ; 3]".  You must always remember to factor to a 
single power of s (even if this makes complex values)!  s3-11s2+38s-40 factors into (s-2)(s-4)(s-
5).

	Continuing, the easiest of the system representations to explain arises.  State-Variable has become 
popular in the professional industry, due largely to the ease for representing Multi-Input/Multi-Output systems. 
 Several signals can be evaluated simultaneously in very sophisticated systems without having to trace through 
the transfer functions for each Input to Output.  Several other subjects that may cross your path in your 
progression of control theory knowledge (e.g., Kalman Filter, Sensitivity Analysis), use this base structure to 
build upon.  I do suggest you take the time to thoroughly understand these principles for your future 
classes/careers.  Consider the following state and output equations, respectively:

	 

	 


	The "A" matrix represents the system dynamics, namely how the system is connected and where the 
integrators are located.  "B" represents how inputs couple into the system.  "C" represents how the outputs 
couple out of the system. "D" represents what portion of the inputs couples directly into the output.  This 
representation may abstract the original design a little, but the advantages are quite significant.  One such 
advantage is the improved precision of the representation, it suffers from fewer computer round-off type 
problems.
8.  Control Systems - Data Representation (continued)

	Each of these three (Transfer Function, Zero-Pole-Gain and State Variable) representations have there 
advantages for visual inspection,  but the conversion of them from one form to another form can be 
cumbersome.  MATLAB has realized this, and created several routines that allow you to convert from one 
representation to the next.  A list of them, as well as their relations to each other, continuous and discrete 
versions, has been prepared and is stated on page 178 (20.1.6 Model Conversions).  A good exercise would be 
to pick a system, convert it to one of these representations, and then convert this representation to others with 
these routines.  Practice in becoming familiar with these representations and converting between them is left to 
the readers' discression.

	Another aspect to consider is whether your system is continuous-time or discrete-time systems!  In 
reality, modern systems (digitally controlled) read the continuous input (analog data) at discrete intervals 
making hybrid (sampled-data) systems.  Breaking these systems apart, we can separately look at the continuous 
parts and discrete parts, or we can create "equivalent" models of these systems by using conversion routines.  
The concepts of hybrid systems are mind-boggling, and often preferred to convert their representations to one 
or the other (continuous or discrete) "equivalent" system for analysis.

	What comes with the "Signal and Systems" toolbox is one utility to convert from continuous to 
discrete, called "C2D" (located on P. 178 and P. 219).  (The professional Control Toolbox has many utilities 
that go back and forth with a variety of methods for converting.)  The MCSTD toolbox comes with the 
conceptual essentials (further elaborated in the demo m-file) to do almost all the conversions that the 
professional toolbox does.  The MCSTD toolbox even gives and uses examples of these conversions, since 
they are mostly polynomial substitutions (see polysbst in the MCSTD toolbox).  Once again, this is an 
excellent teaching tool for control systems theory, while not giving you all of the professional Control System 
toolbox features.  Without the book, Modern Control System Theory and Design, Second Edition, all that can 
be explained and practiced is the "C2D" function, which is straight forward when reading it in the Student 
Edition.

	A visual implementation of the system modelling is also available.  It utilizes the above data 
representations of the basic building blocks, and the capability to interconnect the blocks.  The Simulink 
Toolbox, used for system simulations, allows building of the system models in this visual sense (see section 14 
on Simulation in the Time Domain).  The Simulink developed model can be "queried" for the states contained 
in the system model.  However, this is considered an "advanced topic" in Simulink manual and comprehension 
of the "S-Function" returns shall be left to the Simulink manuals.

9.  Control Systems - Bode Diagram

	  Using the general purpose example where G(s) is the forward loop gain and H(s) is the negative 
feedback gain, the overall closed loop transfer function is:
 

	The desire is to see where (in the frequency domain) the feedback causes the system to become 
unstable.  Prior to the feedback loop being closed, the system gain was only G(s).  Obviously the denominator 
(1+G(s)H(s)) is the influencing factor, and that is what we shall be looking at (at least at first).  If the 
denominator goes to zero (G(s)H(s) = -1), the system explodes and is an ideal example of instability.  But the 
question of what happens at similar type values is an excellent question to be asked.  The Bode Diagram, 
Nichols Chart and the root locus try to give insight into this question, each in their own special way.  Also, 
most of these methods apply equally well to continuous-time as well as discrete-time systems.

	The Bode Diagram attempts to visually display G(s)H(s) as amplitude and phase across a frequency 
range of interest.  Then the results of this are compared (magnitude and phase separately) to +1 to determine 
Gain Margin and Phase Margin.  These values measure how much G(s)H(s) cancels the +1 in the denominator, 
and where this occurs.

	With the Gain Margin, we are interested in the magnitude of G(s)H(s) when its phase is -180 (namely 
purely negative real value).  An often suggested desirable range for Gain Margin that accomplish this is 4db to 
12db.

	With the Phase Margin, we are interested in the phase of G(s)H(s) when its magnitude is 1 (0db).  A 
phase margin of -180 (magnitude 1 and phase -180 equals -1) will mean an oscillatory system.  An often 
suggested desirable range for Phase Margin is 30 to 60 degrees.

	Now, let us practice creating Bode diagrams using MATLAB.  There are many examples to practice 
with for creating Bode diagrams on the MCSTD diskette.  Two functions exist that assist in Bode diagrams:


	1)	"bode" is described on pages 210 - 213 of the Student Edition.  This function returns/plots the 
Bode response of a system.

	2)	"margins" is described in the MCSTD toolbox.  This, in my opinion, had an advantage to the 
earlier versions of the Control System toolbox's "margin" routine!  Margins analytically 
calculates, with analytic precision, all (not just one) the Gain and Phase Margins and their 
associated frequencies (versus the common train of thought: interpolating a single value from a 
plot).

	When trying to find the proper syntax to call the "bode" utility, either using the help feature or looking 
in the reference manual.  I personally prefer the help feature, unless I need an example.

9.  Control Systems - Bode Diagram (continued)

	Valid syntax for the "bode" utility, for transfer functions, is:

		1)	[mag,phase,w] = bode(num,den)
		2)	[mag,phase,w] = bode(num,den,w)
		3)	[mag,phase] = bode(num,den,w)
		4)	bode(num,den,w)
		5)	bode(num,den)
	
	The first two are described in the Student Edition, but then the book continues to use Bode as in the last 
two examples!  This may be confusing for those not familiar with MATLAB.  The left-hand arguments (mag, 
phase and w) are optional for this function, as described on the second page of the Bode function in the Student 
Edition book.  The next confusing thing that occurs is that the example that they give does not work because 
the first line "[a,b,c,d] = ord2(1,.2);" is a utility that is only available in the Professional Control System 
Toolbox.  The results, which can be manually typed, is listed below so that you may try the Bode example in 
the book:

	a = [ 0 , 1 ; -1 , -0.4 ] ;
	b = [ 0 ; 1 ] ;
	c = [ 1 , 0 ] ;
	d = 0 ;

	A major short-coming of the Bode diagram is that the margins (gain and phase) are not put onto the 
plot when it generates the plots.  This gets compounded when you want to put them onto the plot, and you 
discover that you can only modify the current plot (the last one being drawn was the phase) with reasonable 
ease.  Adding to the magnitude plot is almost impossible (prior to MATLAB version 4.0).  This is why they 
have the left-hand arguments, so that you can generate the Bode plots yourself with whatever customization on 
the plot that you desire.  This is what is done in the MCSTD diskette when Bode diagrams are done in its 
demo, figures or problems directory.  The MCSTD demo m-file does elaborate further on the creation of the 
Bode diagram with on-screen examples.  There are many good simple example to look at in the figures and 
problems directory in the MCSTD.

10.  Control Systems - Nichols Chart & Nyquist Diagram

	The Nichols Chart is another way to present the Bode diagram.  A Nichols chart presents on one plot 
magnitude versus phase.  A function which displays this overlay grid comes either with the MCSTD or Control 
System (professional version) toolbox.  Once again, the MCSTD diskette comes with several examples that 
you can try.


	1)	"nichgrid" is described in the MCSTD toolbox.  It is made to even deal with the Student version 
(despite the matrix size limitation), as well as the professional versions.  It does put titles nicely 
on the plot, and give some flexibility, but it is slow in creating this overlay.  The professional 
version of this function ("ngrid") is much faster, but not quite as flexible.
	
	I personally prefer the flexibility of the nichgrid utility, and the fact that it can return the grid values to 
you as an additional feature.  The MCSTD demo m-file does elaborate further on the creation of the Nichols 
chart with an on-screen example.



	The Nyquist Stability Criterion determines the number of zeros of 1+G(s)H(s) directly from the 
Nyquist plot of the open-loop transfer function G(s)H(s).  The Nyquist diagram is found by mapping the 
Nyquist paths into the complex plane using the open-loop transfer function G(s)H(s).  The Nyquist path in the 
s-plane encircles the right half of the s-plane, and the Nyquist stability criterion is given by

					N = Z - P
where

	N =	Number of the clockwise encirclements of the (-1,0) point by the Nyquist Diagram
	Z =	Number of zeros of 1+G(s)H(s) in the right half the s-plane
	P =	Number of poles of G(s)H(s) in the right-half of the s-plane

For stability, Z must equal zero.

	The Nyquist Diagram plots the value of G(s)H(s) as s goes from -j*Inf to +j*Inf.  The MATLAB 
utility which displays/evaluates this diagram is call "nyquist".  Occasionally, the Nyquist Diagram has plotting 
values which go to infinity.  When this happens, any computation based plot of this phenomena will tend to 
suffer and yield visually unpredictable results.  Under these conditions, hand drawn plots are usually used 
showing an undisclosed jump in each axis, followed by infinities being located on each axis.  The current 
plotting capabilities cannot intuitively decide for the necessity of this, and somehow incorporate it into the plot 
(as described above).

11.  Control Systems - Root Locus

	The root locus criterion considers how much gain can be applied (or gain altered) to the feedback loop 
of system before it becomes unstable.  Writing or converting G(s)H(s) into its Zero-Pole-Gain representation 
starts us towards visualizing the plot, but this step, and all the other usual steps to create this plot are 
unnecessary with MATLAB!  Once again, the MCSTD toolbox enhances the professional toolbox by not only 
plotting the root locus (rlocus), but also calculating almost any point of interest on the root locus plot directly 
(the professional version has only "rootfind", a graphical method, to locate these points!).  The most commonly 
required value, Kmax, can now be gotten directly with the MCSTD toolbox.

	What is left now is to understand how to create root locus diagrams, and to practice creating them.  
There are many examples of creating root locus diagrams on the MCSTD diskette (try some).  Several 
functions exist that assist with root locus diagrams, of which I've listed ones that I believe are important:


	1)	"rlocus" is described on pages 391 - 393 of the Student Edition.  This functions returns/plots the 
root locus response of the system.  A single example is given in the text manual.

	2)	"rlaxis" is described in the MCSTD Toolbox.  This function returns a set of data representing 
the portion of the root locus that is on the real axis.

	3)	"rlpoba" is described in the MCSTD Toolbox.  This function returns the value(s) (with their 
associated gains) of the break-away/break-in points of the root locus.

	4)	"rootmag" is described in the MCSTD Toolbox.  This function returns the value(s) (with their 
associated gains) of any point on the root locus that corresponds to the specified magnitude.  In 
the discrete root locus, a magnitude of 1 corresponds to Kmax.

	5)	"rootangl" is described in the MCSTD Toolbox.  This function returns the value(s) (with their 
associated gains) of any point on the root locus that corresponds to the specified angle.  In the 
continuous root locus, an angle of ˜90 corresponds to Kmax.  Also, desired gains that 
accomplish specified damping factors (corresponding to particular angles), can easily be picked 
off (usually presented in compensation and design using the root locus).

	These MCSTD features/utilities alone makes the MCSTD toolbox well worth any design engineer's 
review.  Most of the critical values that normally have to be picked off of the plot can be calculated directly 
using the MCSTD toolbox!  The Kmax value, indicating the maximum gain before instability occurs, is 
calculated!  Break-away and break-in points of the root locus are also calculated in the MCSTD, instead of by 
doing them by hand.

	When trying to find the proper syntax to call the "rlocus" utility, either use the help feature or looking in 
the reference manual.  Valid syntax for the "rlocus" utility is described on pp. 391-393.  Like the Bode utility, 
the left-hand arguments (r and k) are optional for this function.  This is not described in the rlocus section of 
the Student Edition book, but given as an example.

	Other functions dealing with the root locus are also available only in the MCSTD toolbox.  The 
MCSTD demo m-file does nicely elaborate further on the creation of the Root Locus and the important 
associated points of interest with on-screen examples.  The significance of these utilities will be understood as 
you progress to the appropriate topics (e.g., discrete time system analysis).

12.  Control Systems - Simulation in the Time Domain

	The tutorial has dealt so far with MATLAB and control systems analysis in the frequency domain.  It is 
always good practice to check your analysis and the assumptions you have made by testing your results with a 
comparison of your analysis and an actual implementation of the system.  The next best thing to a physical 
implementation is a computer simulation implementation of the system.  With the advances in computer 
technology, the distinction of the laboratory experimentation results and computer simulation results is 
becoming hard to distinguish.  The cost (in time, material, resources, observability, and other factors) 
frequently leads many individuals to selecting a computer simulation of the system over an actual 
implementation of the system.  While computer technology has advanced in many ways, it is always good to 
keep in mind that some of the more subtle error sources may be ignored (either by choice or by oversight) in a 
computer simulation.  Computer simulations generally attempts to deal with the "ideal" or "near-ideal" world 
process, rather than cluttering the user with an abundance of anomalies (e.g. wire resistance, hardware 
variability, outside noise influences) that an actual implementation takes somewhat into account due to these 
anomalies being accounted by the "real world" implementation.  In most cases, these anomalies have 
insignificant contributions when comparing the "real world" implementation against a computer simulation of 
the system.

	The question of which computer system simulation software is very important.  A wide variety of 
packages exist on the market, each with an impressive variety of features.  Section 2, "First Time Usage - 
Software For Engineering" elaborates on the software selection criteria I suggest using.  However, my initial 
observation is that our analysis was generated using MATLAB, and our system model and/or analysis results 
already exists in MATLAB notation.  At this point, we are already familiar (no or a small learning curve 
required) with the MATLAB software, notation methodology, etc..  The natural extension of MATLAB to a 
time domain simulation would be a natural choice to make.  With this in mind, The MathWorks has generated 
a toolbox, called Simulink, that accomplishes this goal.  Although the toolbox price may discourage an 
individual student, a University or Corporation that desires these features will find Simulink not unreasonably 
priced.  Simulink is an ideal tool for running many types of computer dynamic system simulations.  Almost 
anyone familiar with the Windows environment can (after installation) begin almost immediately putting 
systems together for simulation.  An important feature to mention is that the applications are not limited to the 
standard linear devices we're used to, but also include many non-linear devices, look-up table type capability, 
data stored on disk, as well as any MATLAB implemented function as a capability.  A wide variety of input 
sources, as well as output display devices can be attached at any number of different points quite easily (similar 
to what is done in a laboratory type environment).  This may sound like a lot to consider, but Simulink handles 
the system development and simulation very smoothly, so much so that the average user should not mind the 
complexity of choices with the ease of implementation.

	Probably the most difficult of this task shall be to evaluate the displays, for checking that the system 
performs in the manner that is expected.  At first glance, this may seem trivial, but the field of using 
"engineering judgement" to verify results may end up as a complicated matter.  Think about checking your 
systems time series output for a minimum phase margin of 30 degrees.  Engineering comprehension and a 
"good eye" for this sort of information.

13.  Control Systems - Simulations as Solutions for System Parameters

	All of us have had solutions to problem elude us for one reason or other.  Most of us have used "trial 
and error" methods to get some reasonable answer to these problems.  These solutions may not have the 
theoretical backing to support them, but they work!  Some of these problems may even be unsolvable by other 
"conventional" techniques.  Why should a simulation tool be excluded from this category of solutions?  The 
answer is, there is no reason.  In fact, the use of this technique would be desirable as a general purpose (usually 
last resort) tool.  Well, The MathWorks has done this for us in their "Nonlinear Control Design Toolbox".  The 
MathWorks has taken the simulation software capability this one step further.

	If a desired system response is known and some of the intermediate system parameters need to be 
calculated in order to meet the desired response, this toolbox will attempt to optimize the intermediate system 
parameter (within some predefined limits) to meet some set of constraints (usually based on the desired 
response curve).  It takes the system simulation (as designed with Simulink) and attaches node(s) that contain 
the constraint limitation(s) (the fundamental unit in the Nonlinear Control Design Toolbox).  The constraint 
limitations also allows introduction of "uncertainty into plant dynamics, conduct Monte Carlo simulations, 
specify lower and upper limits on tunable variables, and alter termination criterion".  The simulation chosen 
may contain linear, non-linear, discrete, or any type of developed node that Simulink allows (the linear system 
analysis capabilities is the subset, where there are only linear types of nodes implemented in this simulation).

	The power of this toolbox lies in the fact that when system parameters cannot be calculated through 
theoretical means, in order to meet the desired system response, this toolbox can be used to estimate these 
parameters through a "trial and error" type of estimation (actually called an optimization technique).  There is 
no reason that these types of analysis cannot be done with systems that contain "computable" system parameter. 
 However, these simulations are time consuming, may not converge to a solution, and when they do converge 
the accuracy of the results depends on many other factors (e.g., accuracy of the constraints, local minimization 
difficulties, etc.).  A precise theoretical solution is usually preferred (in almost all fields of study), compared to 
a "trial and error" type of analysis.  There are times when this is not possible, and that is when this toolbox can 
be invaluable to the user.

14.  Summary

	The concept of toolboxes for MATLAB as a powerful tool becomes more and more visible.  The 
toolboxes available, cover a wide variety of topics, and give the end-user the flexibility to buy only what he 
needs now, while allowing him to grow with the different modules as he grows (also the toolboxes grow with 
time, so that you get the most current when you need them).  Developing your own toolbox of features/utilities 
can also be done with relatively little difficulty; however, a toolbox (available from The Math Works Inc.) 
might already be available, offering: well planned functions, technical support, and a user manual.  The 
relatively small cost may be well worth it versus using your time, effort, coding errors, invalid results due to 
coding errors, etc..

	The MCSTD toolbox is very useful and is recommend to any MATLAB user dealing with control 
systems (accompanying the Student Edition or with the professional Control Systems toolbox).

	This tutorial has illustrated how the MCSTD Toolbox can be used in conjunction with the following 
MathWorks toolboxes: Signals and Systems Toolbox, Control System Toolbox; Simulink; Nonlinear Control 
Design Toolbox.  A discussion of the Symbolic Toolbox is presented in the Demo file, and used in some of the 
problems and figures files.

	Another source of what appears to be bundle knowledge (continually growing) is the "MATLAB User 
Group" Archive, nicknamed MUG.  MATLAB users are supplied a location to share their thoughts and 
functions (as well as other tid-bits of information) with their peers here.  This is a vast collection of 
information, that the average user will not sift completely through.  Currently it is available "FREE" (at their 
FTP site) to registered owners of MATLAB.
 



	I hope that you have found this tutorial and other files on the MCSTD Toolbox to be useful.  I hope that 
you have found this learning package consisting of the book(s) and the MCSTD Toolbox to be useful and 
helpful.  I am always interested in hearing from users of my book(s).  You may feel free to contact me at:

Stanley M. Shinners
28 Sagamore Way North
Jericho, N.Y. 11753
 



 

 






